Changing the MTU for the cluster network

As a cluster administrator, you can change the MTU for the cluster network after cluster installation. This change is disruptive as cluster nodes must be rebooted to finalize the MTU change. You can change the MTU only for clusters using the OVN-Kubernetes or OpenShift SDN network plugins.
About the cluster MTU
During installation the maximum transmission unit (MTU) for the cluster network is detected automatically based on the MTU of the primary network interface of nodes in the cluster. You do not usually need to override the detected MTU.

You might want to change the MTU of the cluster network for several reasons:

The MTU detected during cluster installation is not correct for your infrastructure.

Your cluster infrastructure now requires a different MTU, such as from the addition of nodes that need a different MTU for optimal performance.


You can change the cluster MTU for only the OVN-Kubernetes and OpenShift SDN cluster network plugins.

Service interruption considerations
When you initiate an MTU change on your cluster the following effects might impact service availability:

At least two rolling reboots are required to complete the migration to a new MTU. During this time, some nodes are not available as they restart.

Specific applications deployed to the cluster with shorter timeout intervals than the absolute TCP timeout interval might experience disruption during the MTU change.
MTU value selection
When planning your MTU migration there are two related but distinct MTU values to consider.

Hardware MTU: This MTU value is set based on the specifics of your network infrastructure.

Cluster network MTU: This MTU value is always less than your hardware MTU to account for the cluster network overlay overhead. The specific overhead is determined by your network plugin:


If your cluster requires different MTU values for different nodes, you must subtract the overhead value for your network plugin from the lowest MTU value that is used by any node in your cluster. For example, if some nodes in your cluster have an MTU of 9001, and some have an MTU of 1500, you must set this value to 1400.
How the migration process works
The following table summarizes the migration process by segmenting between the user-initiated steps in the process and the actions that the migration performs in response.
Changing the cluster MTU
As a cluster administrator, you can change the maximum transmission unit (MTU) for your cluster. The migration is disruptive and nodes in your cluster might be temporarily unavailable as the MTU update rolls out.

The following procedure describes how to change the cluster MTU by using either machine configs, DHCP, or an ISO. If you use the DHCP or ISO approach, you must refer to configuration artifacts that you kept after installing your cluster to complete the procedure.

You installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).

You are logged in to the cluster with a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You identified the target MTU for your cluster. The correct MTU varies depending on the network plugin that your cluster uses:


To increase or decrease the MTU for the cluster network complete the following procedure.

To obtain the current MTU for the cluster network, enter the following command:

Prepare your configuration for the hardware MTU:

To begin the MTU migration, specify the migration configuration by entering the following command. The Machine Config Operator performs a rolling reboot of the nodes in the cluster in preparation for the MTU change.

As the MCO updates machines in each machine config pool, it reboots each node one by one. You must wait until all the nodes are updated. Check the machine config pool status by entering the following command:

Confirm the status of the new machine configuration on the hosts:

Update the underlying network interface MTU value:

As the MCO updates machines in each machine config pool, it reboots each node one by one. You must wait until all the nodes are updated. Check the machine config pool status by entering the following command:

Confirm the status of the new machine configuration on the hosts:

To finalize the MTU migration, enter one of the following commands:


You can verify that a node in your cluster uses an MTU that you specified in the previous procedure.

To get the current MTU for the cluster network, enter the following command:

Get the current MTU for the primary network interface of a node.
Additional resources
Using advanced networking options for PXE and ISO installations

Manually creating NetworkManager profiles in key file format

Configuring a dynamic Ethernet connection using nmcli