Configuring hosted control planes

To get started with hosted control planes for "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", you first configure your hosted cluster on the provider that you want to use. Then, you complete a few management tasks.

Hosted control planes is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
You can view the procedures by selecting from one of the following providers:
Amazon Web Services (AWS)
AWS infrastructure requirements: Review the infrastructure requirements to create a hosted cluster on AWS.

Configuring the hosting cluster on AWS: The tasks to configure a hosted cluster on AWS include creating the AWS S3 OIDC secret, creating a routable public zone, enabling external DNS, enabling AWS PrivateLink, enabling the hosted control planes feature, and installing the hosted control planes CLI.

Managing hosted control plane clusters on AWS: Management tasks include creating, importing, accessing, or deleting a hosted cluster on AWS.

Deploying the SR-IOV Operator for hosted control planes: After you configure and deploy your hosting service cluster, you can create a subscription to the Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV) Operator on a hosted cluster. The SR-IOV pod runs on worker machines rather than the control plane.

Configuring node tuning in a hosted cluster: To set node-level tuning on the nodes in your hosted cluster, you can use the Node Tuning Operator. In hosted control planes, you can configure node tuning by creating config maps that contain Tuned objects and referencing those config maps in your node pools.

Advanced node tuning for hosted clusters by setting kernel boot parameters: More advanced tuning in hosted control planes requires setting kernel boot parameters.
Bare metal
Bare metal infrastructure requirements: Review the infrastructure requirements to create a hosted cluster on bare metal.

Configuring the hosting cluster on bare metal:

Managing hosted control plane clusters on bare metal:
OpenShift Virtualization
Managing hosted control plane clusters on OpenShift Virtualization: Create "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" clusters with worker nodes that are hosted by KubeVirt virtual machines.