Observing the network traffic

As an administrator, you can observe the network traffic in the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" console for detailed troubleshooting and analysis. This feature helps you get insights from different graphical representations of traffic flow. There are several available views to observe the network traffic.
Observing the network traffic from the Overview view
The Overview view displays the overall aggregated metrics of the network traffic flow on the cluster. As an administrator, you can monitor the statistics with the available display options.

Working with the Overview view
As an administrator, you can navigate to the Overview view to see the graphical representation of the flow rate statistics.

Navigate to Observe → Network Traffic.

In the Network Traffic page, click the Overview tab.


You can configure the scope of each flow rate data by clicking the menu icon.
Configuring advanced options for the Overview view
You can customize the graphical view by using advanced options. To access the advanced options, click Show advanced options.You can configure the details in the graph by using the Display options drop-down menu. The options available are:

Metric type: The metrics to be shown in Bytes or Packets. The default value is Bytes.

Scope: To select the detail of components between which the network traffic flows. You can set the scope to Node, Namespace, Owner, or Resource. Owner is an aggregation of resources. Resource can be a pod, service, node, in case of host-network traffic, or an unknown IP address. The default value is Namespace.

Truncate labels: Select the required width of the label from the drop-down list. The default value is M.


Managing panels
You can select the required statistics to be displayed, and reorder them. To manage columns, click Manage panels.
Packet drop tracking
You can configure graphical representation of network flow records with packet loss in the Overview view. By employing eBPF tracepoint hooks, you can gain valuable insights into packet drops for TCP, UDP, SCTP, ICMPv4, and ICMPv6 protocols, which can result in the following actions:

Identification: Pinpoint the exact locations and network paths where packet drops are occurring. Determine whether specific devices, interfaces, or routes are more prone to drops.

Root cause analysis: Examine the data collected by the eBPF program to understand the causes of packet drops. For example, are they a result of congestion, buffer issues, or specific network events?

Performance optimization: With a clearer picture of packet drops, you can take steps to optimize network performance, such as adjust buffer sizes, reconfigure routing paths, or implement Quality of Service (QoS) measures.


When packet drop tracking is enabled, you can see the following metrics represented in a chart in the Overview.

Top X flow dropped rates stacked

Total dropped rate

Top X dropped state

Top X dropped cause

Top X flow dropped rates stacked with total


Two kinds of packet drops are detected by Network Observability: host drops and OVS drops. Host drops are prefixed with SKB_DROP and OVS drops are prefixed with OVS_DROP. Dropped flows are shown in the side panel of the Traffic flows table along with a link to a description of each drop type. Examples of host drop reasons are as follows:

SKB_DROP_REASON_NO_SOCKET: the packet dropped due to a missing socket.

SKB_DROP_REASON_TCP_CSUM: the packet dropped due to a TCP checksum error.


Examples of OVS drops reasons are as follows:

OVS_DROP_LAST_ACTION: OVS packets dropped due to an implicit drop action, for example due to a configured network policy.

OVS_DROP_IP_TTL: OVS packets dropped due to an expired IP TTL.


See the Additional Resources of this section for more information about enabling and working with packet drop tracking.

For more information about configuring packet drops in the FlowCollector, see Working with packet drops.
DNS tracking
You can configure graphical representation of Domain Name System (DNS) tracking of network flows in the Overview view. Using DNS tracking with extended Berkeley Packet Filter (eBPF) tracepoint hooks can serve various purposes:

Network Monitoring: Gain insights into DNS queries and responses, helping network administrators identify unusual patterns, potential bottlenecks, or performance issues.

Security Analysis: Detect suspicious DNS activities, such as domain name generation algorithms (DGA) used by malware, or identify unauthorized DNS resolutions that might indicate a security breach.

Troubleshooting: Debug DNS-related issues by tracing DNS resolution steps, tracking latency, and identifying misconfigurations.


When DNS tracking is enabled, you can see the following metrics represented in a chart in the Overview. See the Additional Resources in this section for more information about enabling and working with this view.

Top 5 average DNS latencies

Top 5 DNS response code

Top 5 DNS response code stacked with total


This feature is supported for IPv4 and IPv6 UDP protocol.

For more information about configuring DNS in the FlowCollector, see Working with DNS tracking.
Observing the network traffic from the Traffic flows view
The Traffic flows view displays the data of the network flows and the amount of traffic in a table. As an administrator, you can monitor the amount of traffic across the application by using the traffic flow table.

Working with the Traffic flows view
As an administrator, you can navigate to Traffic flows table to see network flow information.

Navigate to Observe → Network Traffic.

In the Network Traffic page, click the Traffic flows tab.


You can click on each row to get the corresponding flow information.
Configuring advanced options for the Traffic flows view
You can customize and export the view by using Show advanced options. You can set the row size by using the Display options drop-down menu. The default value is Normal.

Managing columns
You can select the required columns to be displayed, and reorder them. To manage columns, click Manage columns.
Exporting the traffic flow data
You can export data from the Traffic flows view.

Click Export data.

In the pop-up window, you can select the Export all data checkbox to export all the data, and clear the checkbox to select the required fields to be exported.

Click Export.
Working with conversation tracking
As an administrator, you can you can group network flows that are part of the same conversation. A conversation is defined as a grouping of peers that are identified by their IP addresses, ports, and protocols, resulting in an unique Conversation Id. You can query conversation events in the web console. These events are represented in the web console as follows:

Conversation start: This event happens when a connection is starting or TCP flag intercepted

Conversation tick: This event happens at each specified interval defined in the FlowCollector spec.processor.conversationHeartbeatInterval parameter while the connection is active.

Conversation end: This event happens when the FlowCollector spec.processor.conversationEndTimeout parameter is reached or  the TCP flag is intercepted.

Flow: This is the network traffic flow that occurs within the specified interval.


In the web console, navigate to Operators -> Installed Operators.

Under the Provided APIs heading for the NetObserv Operator, select Flow Collector.

Select cluster then select the YAML tab.

Configure the FlowCollector custom resource so that spec.processor.logTypes, conversationEndTimeout, and conversationHeartbeatInterval parameters are set according to your observation needs. A sample configuration is as follows:

Refresh the Network Traffic page on the Traffic flows tab. Notice there are two new columns, Event/Type and Conversation Id. All the Event/Type fields are Flow when Flow is the selected query option.

Select Query Options and choose the Log Type, Conversation. Now the Event/Type shows all of the desired conversation events.

Next you can filter on a specific conversation ID or switch between the Conversation and Flow log type options from the side panel.
Working with packet drops
Packet loss occurs when one or more packets of network flow data fail to reach their destination. You can track these drops by editing the FlowCollector to the specifications in the following YAML example.

CPU and memory usage increases when this feature is enabled.
In the web console, navigate to Operators -> Installed Operators.

Under the Provided APIs heading for the NetObserv Operator, select Flow Collector.

Select cluster, and then select the YAML tab.

Configure the FlowCollector custom resource for packet drops, for example:


When you refresh the Network Traffic page, the Overview, Traffic Flow, and Topology views display new information about packet drops:
Working with DNS tracking
Using DNS tracking, you can monitor your network, conduct security analysis, and troubleshoot DNS issues. You can track DNS by editing the FlowCollector to the specifications in the following YAML example.

CPU and memory usage increases are observed in the eBPF agent when this feature is enabled.
In the web console, navigate to Operators -> Installed Operators.

Under the Provided APIs heading for the NetObserv Operator, select Flow Collector.

Select cluster then select the YAML tab.

Configure the FlowCollector custom resource. A sample configuration is as follows:

When you refresh the Network Traffic page, there are new DNS representations you can choose to view in the Overview and Traffic Flow views and new filters you can apply.


Using the histogram
You can click Show histogram to display a toolbar view for visualizing the history of flows as a bar chart. The histogram shows the number of logs over time. You can select a part of the histogram to filter the network flow data in the table that follows the toolbar.
Observing the network traffic from the Topology view
The Topology view provides a graphical representation of the network flows and the amount of traffic. As an administrator, you can monitor the traffic data across the application by using the Topology view.

Working with the Topology view
As an administrator, you can navigate to the Topology view to see the details and metrics of the component.

Navigate to Observe → Network Traffic.

In the Network Traffic page, click the Topology tab.


You can click each component in the Topology to view the details and metrics of the component.
Configuring the advanced options for the Topology view
You can customize and export the view by using Show advanced options. The advanced options view has the following features:

Find in view: To search the required components in the view.

Display options: To configure the following options:


Exporting the topology view
To export the view, click Export topology view. The view is downloaded in PNG format.
Filtering the network traffic
By default, the Network Traffic page displays the traffic flow data in the cluster based on the default filters configured in the FlowCollector instance. You can use the filter options to observe the required data by changing the preset filter.


Query Options
You can use Query Options to optimize the search results, as listed below:
Quick filters
The default values in Quick filters drop-down menu are defined in the FlowCollector configuration. You can modify the options from console.
Advanced filters
You can set the advanced filters, Common, Source, or Destination, by selecting the parameter to be filtered from the dropdown list. The flow data is filtered based on the selection. To enable or disable the applied filter, you can click on the applied filter listed below the filter options.


You can toggle between  One way and   Back and forth filtering. The  One way filter shows only Source and Destination traffic according to your filter selections. You can use Swap to change the directional view of the Source and Destination traffic. The   Back and forth filter includes return traffic with the Source and Destination filters. The directional flow of network traffic is shown in the Direction column in the Traffic flows table as Ingress`or `Egress for inter-node traffic and `Inner`for traffic inside a single node.

You can click Reset defaults to remove the existing filters, and apply the filter defined in FlowCollector configuration.

To understand the rules of specifying the text value, click Learn More.
Alternatively, you can access the traffic flow data in the Network Traffic tab of the Namespaces, Services, Routes, Nodes, and Workloads pages which provide the filtered data of the corresponding aggregations.

For more information about configuring quick filters in the FlowCollector, see Configuring Quick Filters and the Flow Collector sample resource.