Connecting a virtual machine to an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network

You can connect a virtual machine (VM) to an Open Virtual Network (OVN)-Kubernetes secondary network. The OVN-Kubernetes Container Network Interface (CNI) plug-in uses the Geneve (Generic Network Virtualization Encapsulation) protocol to create an overlay network between nodes.

OpenShift Virtualization currently supports the flat layer 2 topology. This topology connects workloads by a cluster-wide logical switch. You can use this overlay network to connect VMs on different nodes, without having to configure any additional physical networking infrastructure.

To configure an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network and attach a VM to that network, perform the following steps:

Create a network attachment definition (NAD) by using the web console or the CLI.

Add information about the secondary network interface to the VM specification by using the web console or the CLI.
Creating an OVN-Kubernetes NAD
You can create an OVN-Kubernetes flat layer 2 network attachment definition (NAD) by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the CLI.

Configuring IP address management (IPAM) in a network attachment definition for virtual machines is not supported.
Creating a NAD for flat layer 2 topology using the CLI
You can create a network attachment definition (NAD) which describes how to attach a pod to the layer 2 overlay network.

You have access to the cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Create a NetworkAttachmentDefinition object:

Apply the manifest:
Attaching a virtual machine to the OVN-Kubernetes secondary network
You can attach a virtual machine (VM) to the OVN-Kubernetes secondary network interface by using the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console or the CLI.

Attaching a virtual machine to an OVN-Kubernetes secondary network using the CLI
You can connect a virtual machine (VM) to the OVN-Kubernetes secondary network by including the network details in the VM configuration.

You have access to the cluster as a user with cluster-admin privileges.

You have installed the OpenShift CLI (oc).


Edit the VirtualMachine manifest to add the OVN-Kubernetes secondary network interface details, as in the following example:

Apply the VirtualMachine manifest:

Optional: If you edited a running virtual machine, you must restart it for the changes to take effect.
Additional resources
Configuration for an OVN-Kubernetes additional network