Container image signatures

Red Hat delivers signatures for the images in the Red Hat Container Registries. Those signatures can be automatically verified when being pulled to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" 4 clusters by using the Machine Config Operator (MCO).

Quay.io serves most of the images that make up "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", and only the release image is signed. Release images refer to the approved "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" images, offering a degree of protection against supply chain attacks. However, some extensions to "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform", such as logging, monitoring, and service mesh, are shipped as Operators from the Operator Lifecycle Manager (OLM). Those images ship from the Red Hat Ecosystem Catalog Container images registry.

To verify the integrity of those images between Red Hat registries and your infrastructure, enable signature verification.
Enabling signature verification for Red Hat Container Registries
Enabling container signature validation for Red Hat Container Registries requires writing a signature verification policy file specifying the keys to verify images from these registries. For RHEL8 nodes, the registries are already defined in /etc/containers/registries.d by default.

Create a Butane config file, 51-worker-rh-registry-trust.bu, containing the necessary configuration for the worker nodes.

Use Butane to generate a machine config YAML file, 51-worker-rh-registry-trust.yaml, containing the file to be written to disk on the worker nodes:

Apply the created machine config:

Check that the worker machine config pool has rolled out with the new machine config:

If your cluster uses any RHEL7 worker nodes, when the worker machine config pool is updated, create YAML files on those nodes in the /etc/containers/registries.d directory, which specify the location of the detached signatures for a given registry server. The following example works only for images hosted in registry.access.redhat.com and registry.redhat.io.
Verifying the signature verification configuration
After you apply the machine configs to the cluster, the Machine Config Controller detects the new MachineConfig object and generates a new rendered-worker-<hash> version.

You enabled signature verification by using a machine config file.


On the command line, run the following command to display information about a desired worker:

Run the oc describe command again:

Confirm that the policy.json file exists with the following command:

Confirm that the registry.redhat.io.yaml file exists with the following command:

Confirm that the registry.access.redhat.com.yaml file exists with the following command:
Additional resources
Machine Config Overview