Release notes for Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform 2.9.2

Distributed tracing overview
As a service owner, you can use distributed tracing to instrument your services to gather insights into your service architecture. You can use the Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform for monitoring, network profiling, and troubleshooting the interaction between components in modern, cloud-native, microservices-based applications.

With the distributed tracing platform, you can perform the following functions:

Monitor distributed transactions

Optimize performance and latency

Perform root cause analysis


The distributed tracing platform consists of three components:

Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform (Jaeger), which is based on the open source Jaeger project.

Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform (Tempo), which is based on the open source Grafana Tempo project.

Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing data collection, which is based on the open source OpenTelemetry project.


Jaeger does not use FIPS validated cryptographic modules.
Component versions in the Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform 2.9.2

CVEs
This release fixes CVE-2023-46234.
Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform (Jaeger)
Known issues
Apache Spark is not supported.

The streaming deployment via AMQ/Kafka is unsupported on IBM Z and IBM Power Systems.
Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform (Tempo)
The Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform (Tempo) is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Known issues
Currently, the custom TLS CA option is not implemented for connecting to object storage. (TRACING-3462)

Currently, when used with the Tempo Operator, the Jaeger UI only displays services that have sent traces in the last 15 minutes. For services that did not send traces in the last 15 minutes, traces are still stored but not displayed in the Jaeger UI. (TRACING-3139)

Currently, the distributed tracing platform (Tempo) fails on the IBM Z (s390x) architecture. (TRACING-3545)

Currently, the Tempo query frontend service must not use internal mTLS when Gateway is not deployed. This issue does not affect the Jaeger Query API. The workaround is to disable mTLS. (TRACING-3510)

Missing images for running the Tempo Operator in restricted environments. The Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing platform (Tempo) CSV is missing references to the operand images. (TRACING-3523)
Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing data collection
The Red Hat OpenShift distributed tracing data collection is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Known issues
Currently, you must manually set operator maturity to Level IV, Deep Insights. (TRACING-3431)
Getting support
If you experience difficulty with a procedure described in this documentation, or with "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" in general, visit the Red Hat Customer Portal. From the Customer Portal, you can:

Search or browse through the Red Hat Knowledgebase of articles and solutions relating to Red Hat products.

Submit a support case to Red Hat Support.

Access other product documentation.


To identify issues with your cluster, you can use Insights in OpenShift Cluster Manager Hybrid Cloud Console. Insights provides details about issues and, if available, information on how to solve a problem.

If you have a suggestion for improving this documentation or have found an error, submit a Jira issue for the most relevant documentation component. Please provide specific details, such as the section name and "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" version.
Making open source more inclusive
Red Hat is committed to replacing problematic language in our code, documentation, and web properties. We are beginning with these four terms: master, slave, blacklist, and whitelist. Because of the enormity of this endeavor, these changes will be implemented gradually over several upcoming releases. For more details, see our CTO Chris Wright's message.