Managing the default storage class

Overview
Managing the default storage class allows you to accomplish several different objectives:

Enforcing static provisioning by disabling dynamic provisioning.

When you have other preferred storage classes, preventing the storage operator from re-creating the initial default storage class.

Renaming, or otherwise changing, the default storage class


To accomplish these objectives, you change the setting for the spec.storageClassState field in the ClusterCSIDriver object. The possible settings for this field are:

Managed: (Default) The Container Storage Interface (CSI) operator is actively managing its default storage class, so that most manual changes made by a cluster administrator to the default storage class are removed, and the default storage class is continuously re-created if you attempt to manually delete it.

Unmanaged: You can modify the default storage class. The CSI operator is not actively managing storage classes, so that it is not reconciling the default storage class it creates automatically.

Removed: The CSI operators deletes the default storage class.


Managing the default storage classes is supported by the following Container Storage Interface (CSI) driver operators:

AliCloud Disk

Amazon Web Services (AWS) Elastic Block Storage (EBS)

Azure Disk

Azure File

Google Cloud Platform (GCP) Persistent Disk (PD)

IBM VPC Block

OpenStack Cinder

VMware vSphere
Managing the default storage class using the web console
Access to the "Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" web console.

Access to the cluster with cluster-admin privileges.


To manage the default storage class using the web console:

Log in to the web console.

Click Administration > CustomResourceDefinitions.

On the CustomResourceDefinitions page, type clustercsidriver to find the ClusterCSIDriver object.

Click ClusterCSIDriver, and then click the Instances tab.

Click the name of the desired instance, and then click the YAML tab.

Add the spec.storageClassState field with a value of Managed, Unmanaged, or Removed.

Click Save.
Managing the default storage class using the CLI
Access to the cluster with cluster-admin privileges.


To manage the storage class using the CLI, run the following command:

oc patch clustercsidriver $DRIVERNAME --type=merge -p "{\"spec\":{\"storageClassState\":\"${STATE}\"}}" 1
Where ${STATE} is "Removed" or "Managed" or "Unmanaged".
Absent or multiple default storage classes
Multiple default storage classes
Multiple default storage classes can occur if you mark a non-default storage class as default and do not unset the existing default storage class, or you create a default storage class when a default storage class is already present. With multiple default storage classes present, any persistent volume claim (PVC) requesting the default storage class (pvc.spec.storageClassName=nil) gets the most recently created default storage class, regardless of the default status of that storage class, and the administrator receives an alert in the alerts dashboard that there are multiple default storage classes, MultipleDefaultStorageClasses.
Absent default storage class
There are two possible scenarios where PVCs can attempt to use a non-existent default storage class:

An administrator removes the default storage class or marks it as non-default, and then a user creates a PVC requesting the default storage class.

During installation, the installer creates a PVC requesting the default storage class, which has not yet been created.


In the preceding scenarios, the PVCs remain in pending state indefinitely.

"Red Hat OpenShift Container Platform" provides a feature to retroactively assign the default storage class to PVCs, so that they do not remain in the pending state. With this feature enabled, PVCs requesting the default storage class that are created when no default storage classes exists, remain in the pending state until a default storage class is created, or one of the existing storage classes is declared the default. As soon as the default storage class is created or declared, the PVC gets the new default storage class.

Retroactive default storage class assignment is a Technology Preview feature only. Technology Preview features are not supported with Red Hat production service level agreements (SLAs) and might not be functionally complete. Red Hat does not recommend using them in production. These features provide early access to upcoming product features, enabling customers to test functionality and provide feedback during the development process.

For more information about the support scope of Red Hat Technology Preview features, see Technology Preview Features Support Scope.
Procedure
To enable retroactive default storage class assignment:

Enable feature gates (see Nodes → Working with clusters → Enabling features using feature gates).
Changing the default storage class
Use the following procedure to change the default storage class.

For example, if you have two defined storage classes, gp3 and standard, and you want to change the default storage class from gp3 to standard.

Access to the cluster with cluster-admin privileges.


To change the default storage class:

List the storage classes:

Make the desired storage class the default.

Remove the default storage class setting from the old default storage class.

Verify the changes: